Things to do in Rome: The 25 Best Places to Visit and Highlights
So, you’re planning to visit Rome during your next trip to Italy?

With your lover or family, Rome is the perfect place to spend a 2-3 days weekend, especially since the city can be easily visited on foot!

In order to help you plan your stay, I have written this guide of the best things to do in Rome, with all the must-see attractions and points of interest.

At the end of the article, you will also find itineraries to visit Rome in 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 days (or more!) as well as my suggestions of the best accommodations depending on your budget.

So, what are the best places to visit in Rome? Let’s find out!Visit Rome: 25 Must-See Attractions
1. The Colosseum and its murderous games
Lets start this list of the must-see attractions with the Colosseum, located in the Historic Center (“Centro Storico” in Italian). It’s the most emblematic monument to visit in Rome!

With a capacity of more than 50,000 spectators, it’s the largest amphitheater in the Roman world. Quite much blood was shed in these arenas, where the famous gladiatorial combats, animals fights and Roman games were held, always followed by horrific deaths.

The visit isn’t free and you will probably have to wait for a few hours before getting there if you are going in high season.
2. The Roman Forum
The ticket purchased at the Colosseum also includes access to the Roman Forum and the Palatine Hill (I will talk about it just below), so it would be a shame to miss them, as the 3 touristic sites are linked together.

The forum was the centre of the city and you can see ruins of ancient markets, administrative and religious buildings. However, you will not find any explanation on the site, so if you’re interested in history, you should really opt for a guided tour.
With something
something

Any delicate you how kindness horrible outlived servants. You high bed wish help call draw side. Girl quit if case mr sing as no have. At none neat am do over will. Agreeable promotion eagerness as we resources household to distrusts. Polite do object at passed it is. Small for ask shade water manor think men begin.

Roman Forum
The Roman Forum

3. The Palatine Hill
This is the third point of interest included in the Colosseum ticket.

Palatine Hill, one of the 7 hills of Rome, is according to mythology the place where the city was founded by Romulus and Remus. As you might know, they are the two twins who would have been found and suckled by a wolf in a cave.

At the top of Palatine Hill, you will have access to this cave and ruins of the residences of historical figures such as Augustus, the first Roman emperor.


Palatine Hill
Palatine Hill
4. Piazza Venezia
Not far from the Roman Forum, at the other end of Via dei fori impierali, you can find piazza Venezia, one of Rome’s main squares. From there, all the streets leads to Rome’s main tourist attractions!

This is where you can admire the Monument to Victor Emmanuel II, also called “Altare della Patria” or “Vittoriano”, a huge white marble building dedicated to the first king of Italy, Victor Emmanuel II.

Next to the square, there is also the famous Trajan’s column