Things to do in Rome: The 25 Best Places to Visit and Highlights
So, you’re planning to visit Rome during your next trip to Italy?

With your lover or family, Rome is the perfect place to spend a 2-3 days weekend, especially since the city can be easily visited on foot!

In order to help you plan your stay, I have written this guide of the best things to do in Rome, with all the must-see attractions and points of interest.

At the end of the article, you will also find itineraries to visit Rome in 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 days (or more!) as well as my suggestions of the best accommodations depending on your budget.

So, what are the best places to visit in Rome? Let’s find out!Visit Rome: 25 Must-See Attractions
1. The Colosseum and its murderous games
Lets start this list of the must-see attractions with the Colosseum, located in the Historic Center (“Centro Storico” in Italian). It’s the most emblematic monument to visit in Rome!

With a capacity of more than 50,000 spectators, it’s the largest amphitheater in the Roman world. Quite much blood was shed in these arenas, where the famous gladiatorial combats, animals fights and Roman games were held, always followed by horrific deaths.

The visit isn’t free and you will probably have to wait for a few hours before getting there if you are going in high season.
2. The Roman Forum
The ticket purchased at the Colosseum also includes access to the Roman Forum and the Palatine Hill (I will talk about it just below), so it would be a shame to miss them, as the 3 touristic sites are linked together.

The forum was the centre of the city and you can see ruins of ancient markets, administrative and religious buildings. However, you will not find any explanation on the site, so if you’re interested in history, you should really opt for a guided tour.

Roman Forum
The Roman Forum

3. The Palatine Hill
This is the third point of interest included in the Colosseum ticket.

Palatine Hill, one of the 7 hills of Rome, is according to mythology the place where the city was founded by Romulus and Remus. As you might know, they are the two twins who would have been found and suckled by a wolf in a cave.

At the top of Palatine Hill, you will have access to this cave and ruins of the residences of historical figures such as Augustus, the first Roman emperor.


Palatine Hill
Palatine Hill
4. Piazza Venezia
Not far from the Roman Forum, at the other end of Via dei fori impierali, you can find piazza Venezia, one of Rome’s main squares. From there, all the streets leads to Rome’s main tourist attractions!

This is where you can admire the Monument to Victor Emmanuel II, also called “Altare della Patria” or “Vittoriano”, a huge white marble building dedicated to the first king of Italy, Victor Emmanuel II.

Next to the square, there is also the famous Trajan’s column, with bas-reliefs retracing the military conquests of the Emperor Trajan.

Monument to Victor-Emmanuel II, Piazza Venezia
Monument to Victor-Emmanuel II, Piazza Venezia
5. Piazza del Campidoglio (Capitol Square)
Climb the broad staircase leading to the Monument to Victor Emmanuel II and you will arrive on Capitol Square. Designed by Michelangelo himself, it was formerly the political and religious heart of Rome. On Capitol Square, you can see:

The Palazzo Senatorio or Senatorial Palace
The Palazzo dei Conservatori or Palace of the Conservators
Palazzo Nuovo or New Palace, which now houses the Capitoline Museums and the Museum of Art and Archaeology. One of the most famous art piece you can find there is the Capitoline Wolf statue: The one with the mythical she-wolf suckling Romulus and Remus. You may have already seen it, it’s in almost all history books! Don’t forget to buy your tickets in advance here.
Piazza del Campidoglio
Piazza del Campidoglio
6. The Pantheon
The Pantheon is the best preserved ancient building in Rome and another must-see touristic attraction to add to this list!

Originally dedicated to all mythology divinities, it became a Christian church in the 7th century. Don’t hesitate to enter, the visit is free of charge, which is rare enough to mention it!

Inside, admire the immense dome and the oculus (the opening in the dome), giving the place a unique lighting.

In the Pantheon, you can also see the tombs of Raphael (the famous artist) and Victor Emmanuel II (1st king of Italy, as mentioned above when I talked about the beautiful building dedicated to him on Piazza Venezia)

And if you want to get more historical information, you should get an audioguide. It can be booked here.

visit Rome Pantheon
The Pantheon, a free visit you shouldn’t miss in Rome
7. Piazza Navona
The Piazza Navona is located in the heart of the historic center, not far from the Pantheon. it’s one of the most beautiful and famous square of Rome! There, you can admire the 3 following fountains:

The Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi
The Fontana del Nettuno
The Fontana del Moro
It’s a great place to have a drink or eat ice cream on one of the many terraces, but beware, since this place is very touristic, the prices are too!

piazza Navona
The piazza Navona
8. Trevi Fountain
Also close to the Pantheon, you’ll find the most famous fountain of Europe: The Trevi Fountain (Fontana di Trevi in Italian). A must see for anyone visiting Rome.

Because of the legend surrounding it, this fountain is also renowned for hosting a large number of wedding proposals! Legend has it that in order to save her virginity, a young girl had to reveal the location of the source to the Romans.

In the basin, there are numerous statues representing an allegory of the sea, with Neptune on his chariot in the center. The tradition says you should throw 2 coins: one to make a wish and the other one to be sure to return to Rome. 

Behind the fountain, a large baroque palace contributes much to the charm of the place. Just one thing: the place is always crowded, so you will have a lot of trouble to make a perfect photo of the fountain with no unwanted heads!

Nevertheless, the Trevi Fountain is a major point of interest in Rome.

Trevi Fountain Rome
The famous Trevi Fountain, in Rome
9. Enjoy a gelato (Italian ice cream)
After Trevi fountain, to recover from your emotions (if you were proposed or if you knelt down on your knees while sweating with stress!) or simply to take a short break during the day, it’s time to enjoy an ice cream.

The great new is that you’re in the ideal place, very close to one of the 2 best ice cream shops of Rome: San Crispino located on the Via della Panatteria. The queue is often impressive, but the best things in life are the hardest to obtain!

And since opinions often differ on THE best ice cream in Rome, I also give you the name of San Crispino’s direct competitor, the gelateria “Giolliti” located in Via Uffici del Vicario.

Whichever you choose, you will face the same problem of long waiting line and multiple choice of perfume dilemma.

And yes, as you know from my articles on Nice or Annecy, I am a big ice cream fan! So I have a pro advice to give you: test both! It’s the best way to make up your own mind, isn’t it?

Italian Ice cream Rome
Italian Ice cream shop in Rome
10. Go shopping in Rome
If you want to do some shopping in Rome, it’s the right moment: You’re close to the 2 main shopping streets.

Go shopping in Via del corso
Go to Via del Corso to do some shopping at reasonable prices with big brands such as Zara or H&M.

Go shopping in Via condotti
If you have a higher budget or just want to admire the shop windows, continue your way on Via Condotti. It’s the most prestigious street of Rome with brands like Gucci, Armani or Prada. A bit like the Champs Elysée in Paris!

11. Piazza di Spagna
The Via Condotti will take you straight to the charming Piazza di Spagna, certainly one of the most popular squares, thanks to the beautiful perspective it offers.

The Piazza di Spagna is located at the foot of the monumental staircase leading it to the Trinità dei Monti church. The flowery staircase is the perfect place to take a short break for tourists and Italians alike. A popular gathering place!

On the square, you can also see the Barcaccia fountain ,which adds to the charm of the place.

Piazza di Spagna Rome
The Piazza di Spagna, in Rome
12. Visit Rome’s churches
As I was saying, at the top of the Piazza di Spagna stairs, there is the Trinità dei Monti church which offers a breathtaking view of the city. Its location makes it one of the most famous churches in Rome. Did you knew that the city has no less than 900?

Here is a list of the most beautiful churches in Rome, some of them are true architecture masterpieces!

Let’s start with the 4 largest basilicas in the world, which fortunately are all in Rome:

The St Peter’s Basilica in Vatican city, which I am talking about in detail below
The Basilica di San Giovanni in Laterano, second largest after the Basilica di San Pietro, it’s also the cathedral of Rome,
The Basilica di San Paolo Fuori le Mura, which marks the location of St. Paul’s tomb.
The Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore, the largest shrine in the city erected for the virgin Mary
Some other interesting churches to see in Rome:

Chiesa del Gesù
Basilica di Santa Maria in Trastevere
Basilica di San Pietro in Vincoli
Basilica di San Clemente al Laterano
Chiesa di Santa Maria della Concezione
Chiesa di Sant’Ignazio di Loyola (my favorite in rome)
Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome
The Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome
13. Villa Borghese gardens
North of Piazza di Spagna, there is the largest and certainly the most beautiful public park in Rome.

The Villa Borghese gardens offers a bit of very welcomed calm, after the crowded streets and tourist attractions! You will be able to walk in the wide shady alleys and at the edge of a lake surrounded by temples, statues and many fountains. The park also has a beautiful botanical garden.

To get there, go to Porta Pinciana or Piazzale Flaminio, the 2 park entrances.

Villa Borghese gardens
Villa Borghese gardens
14. Visit Rome’s museums
The Villa Borghese park is also home to 3 museums:

The galleria Borghese that contains a collection of paintings and sculptures. Get your “skip the line” tickets here!
Museo Nazionale Etrusco, a collection of pre-Roman objects
Galleria Nazionale d’Arte Moderna with remarkable paintings by Van Gogh and Cézanne
In addition to the museums located in the park, there are many others to visit in Rome, such as:

The Capitoline museums: On Piazza del Campidoglio, I told you about it a bit before
The Vatican museums: more than 13 museums grouped together in a huge architectural ensemble of nearly 7 kilometers long! Several possible routes ranging from 1h30 to 5 hours of visit. But don’t worry, all routes end at the very famous Sistine Chapel. To have more time to enjoy the visits, I highly recommand you to buy the skip the line tickets in advance. You will save a lot of time! Grab them here now.
Museo Palatino, with everything archaeologists discovered on Palatine Hill
Galleria Nazionale d’Arte Antica or National Gallery of Ancient Art, with a collection of Italian and European paintings. You should go there to admire the works of Raphael or Caravaggio.
museum rome Borghese Gallery
Borghese Gallery
15. Piazza del Popolo
The Piazza del Popolo or People’s Square is located near Villa Borghese.

It’s one of the largest squares of Rome. It’s a major point of interest, with its fountains, 3 churches and obelisk. From the square, climb the stairs to the top of the hill, you will have a beautiful view up to the Vatican.

piazza del Popolo
Piazza del Popolo
16. The bridge and Castel Sant’Angelo
From the piazza, you can then follow the Tiber to the Sant’Angelo bridge and the castle of the same name located on the opposite bank.

The bridge is decorated with 10 statues representing angels, all designed by Bernini. From the bridge, you will have a magnificent view of the city and the river.

The Castel Sant’Angelo, on the other hand, was built by Emperor Hadrian to serve as a mausoleum. Later on, it started to play an important military role: it even served as a place of refuge for the popes during invasions! They have even created a direct access to the Vatican.

You can visit the castle, see the tombs and the ancient popes apartments. You shouldn’t miss the great view from the rampart walk.

Don’t waste your time waiting and buy the skip the line tickets in advance here.

The bridge and Castel Sant'Angelo
The bridge and Castel Sant’Angelo
17. The Vatican
A long corridor leads from the Castel Sant’Angelo to the Vatican. Even if you’re not a believer, a visit to the Vatican is a must during a stay in Rome.

It’s the smallest country in the world, yet is one of the most visited places during a tour in Italy. Only priests and nuns, some dignitaries, guards, and of course the pope are allowed to live there.

A little fact about the guards: they are only Swiss and must of course be Catholic. They swear an oath of fidelity to the Pope himself.

This tradition goes back to the sack of Rome in 1527, when the Swiss guards protected the pope during his escape to the Sant’Angelo castle.

Vatican

18. St. Peter’s Square
You will enter the Vatican through the famous St. Peter’s Square (Piazza San Pietro in Italian). Every year, millions of pilgrims and tourists comes to see this square!

St. Peter’s Square was designed with the following principle in mind: they wanted to allow the greatest number of people to see the Pope give his blessing from the balcony of  St. Peter’s Basilica.

Two colonnades surround the square, consisting of nearly 280 columns and 145 saints statues. In the center of St. Peter’s Square stands an Egyptian obelisk surrounded by 2 large fountains.

The long waiting lines to visit the basilica start from this square.

St Peter's Square Vatican
The huge St Peter’s Square, in the Vatican city
19. St. Peter’s Basilica
To visit St. Peter’s Basilica, you will have to be patient (or be smarter than others and buy the skip the lines tickets here!) However, once inside, the impressive basilica will make forget the long waiting hours. There, you can admire many altars and monuments and be impressed by the rich baroque decoration. To see:

The many funerary monuments of the popes
The famous Saint Peter’s statue
The gigantic dome designed by Michelangelo.
On the right side of the basilica, you can access the dome. You need to take an elevator first, and then, the hardest thing, to climb 323 extra steps.

It’s not recommended for claustrophobes, the ceiling is low and the corridors narrow, but your effort will be greatly rewarded by the magnificent view of the city of Rome.

The entrance to St. Peter’s Basilica is free of charge, you will just be searched at the entrance. Access to the dome has a fee.

St. Peter's Basilica
The St. Peter’s Basilica
20. Trastevere district
After the basilica and to stay on the right bank of the Tiber, I advise you to visit Trastevere district during your trip to Rome

This neighbourhood is becoming more and more trendy and a little “Hipster”, but for now it has retained all its original charm.

You will be (relatively) away from the crowd to discover its typical narrow and flowery streets. There is no big historical monument here like in the rest of Rome, but a real “Italian” neighborhood with its inhabitants and local shops.

I personally visited Trastevere in October, but it seems many tourists visit the area in high season and it becomes less quiet!

On your way to the north of the district, go up the Gianicolo hill to admire a beautiful panorama of the city.

Trastevere district, in Rome
Trastevere district
21. Where to eat in Rome: Have lunch in a trattoria!
The Trastevere district is also the ideal place to enjoy pizza or good pasta in a traditional trattoria. There are a lot of authentic local restaurants with nice small terraces and without too many tourists, it’s the perfect match!

Some nice places in the district:

Roma Sparita: Big terrace, traditional Roman cuisine. Don’t miss the speciality of the restaurant: the “cacio e pepe” spaghetti with pecorino cheese and pepper served in a cheese shell. This is my favorite for its great value for money. Requires reservation.
Antico Arco: Excellent dishes (especially the risotto) and a very good wine list. Bonus: they bring you a sample of your partner’s dish in a small plate so you can taste it.
Tonnarello: Typical, excellent cuisine on a very pleasant setting. Generous dishes at affordable prices.
Of course, if you’re not in the neighborhood for lunchtime, you won’t starve to death with the many choices of trattorias, restaurants and sandwich shops right in the heart of Rome’s historic centre:

Birra e sale: Located next to Piazza Navona. Sandwiches are delicious and made with fresh products. You should definitely try the cold cuts and cheeses!
Pizzeria Loffredo: Very good pizzas and fresh pasta. Great selection of dishes. Friendly atmosphere and very welcoming staff. Booking strongly recommended. Perfect price / quality!
Il Tamburello di Pulcinella: little family restaurant with food made by the mama. Pizzas, pastas, desserts, all home made for a reasonable price. Booking recommended.
22. Campo di Fiori
Since I’ve made your mouth water with Italian cuisine, let’s keep going! To enjoy the smell of fresh produce and admire their bright colors, I advise you to take a little walk through the campo di Fiori.

Every morning (except Sunday) there is a fruit, vegetable, meat and fish market. Although appreciated by tourists because it’s located in Rome historical centre, this small market has managed to preserve all its authenticity.

It’s the perfect place if you want to bring home high quality products from Italy, and it’s much cheaper than in Rome touristic areas!
23. San Lorenzo district
Like Trastevere district, the San Lorenzo district is less known to tourist sand clearly worth a look.

Originally a working-class district, it’s nowadays the student district, with Roman universities. In addition to students, it’s also the street artists favorite place.

And for amateurs, the nightlife is great and beer isn’t expensive at all!

24. Aventine Hill
A peaceful neighborhood, beautiful gardens and an incomparable view of the city, this is what the Aventine Hill (“Aventino” in Italian) has to offer!

You can also add:

Basilica di Santa Sabina all’Aventino
The famous Aventine Keyhole, located Piazza dei Cavalieri di Malta. You will see people standing in line to look through the keyhole (I won’t say anything more!).
The Aventine hill will also offer you one of the most beautiful views of Rome. Did I say that already? 😄

25. Visit the Catacombs of Rome
I will finish this list of the best things to do in Rome with an unusual activity: visiting the catacombs. I recommand you the Catacombs of Callixtus, the best to visit in my opinion!

Once used as cemeteries for Jews and Christians, they are the largest in the city and cover almost 15 hectares. On the walls, you can see representations of Christian life such as baptism and scenes from the Old and New Testaments.

The visit of Rome catacombs takes about 30 minutes and must be done with a guide.

Book the tickets for the tour here!

If you want to visit Rome’s catacombs during your stay, the easiest is probably to go to the Capuchin Crypt, as it’s located downtown, next to the Trevi Fountain. You should book the tickets for the tour here (the guide is included).

Other catacombs such as San Sebastian, Domitilla or Catacomb of Priscilla can also be visited.

Rome catacombs
Rome catacombs
Things to do in Rome when it rains
If it starts to rain during your stay in Rome and you don’t really know what to do, no need to worry!

I have prepared for you a list of the best things to do in Rome on a rainy day:

Visit Rome’s museums: considering the number of museums in town, it can for sure keep you busy for a few days, especially if you go to the Vatican museums and Sistine Chapel.
Going to the Pantheon: you may not know it, but when it’s raining in Rome, it’s actually raining inside the Pantheon! The central oculus is just a hole, so the rains falls through it. Inside, the ground has a slight slope and a few holes, allowing the water to drain away.
Discover (and probably purchase!) amazing local products at Eataly, an indoor market entirely dedicated to Italian gastronomy. The hardest thing will be not to overload your luggage!
Discover the catacombs, an unusual visit to do in Rome when it rains.
Take an Italian cooking class, to learn how to make pasta or pizza like a pro!
Go to one of the indoor karting race tracks: Beyond Roma, Karting Roma, Holykartroma.
Go play bowling: the Bowling Roma is the closest from the city center – Address: 181 viale Regina Margherita.
Things to do in Rome at night
Here is my selection of the best things to do in Rome at night, or in the evening.

Visit the Colosseum at night, VIP style. Yes! You can visit the Colosseum + its underground with a guide after it closes for the general public. The ambiance is totally different, it’s the most exclusive way to discover this marvel of Ancient Roman civilization. You need to purchase your tickets in advance here.
Discover Rome Catacombs at night: An even better way to discover the catacombs is at night, with this VIP tour. You have to book it here.
Visit Rome by night in Segway. This 3 hours guided tour in Segway is a lot of fun! It needs to be booked there.
Go have a drink in the Trastevere district, for sure the best place to enjoy Rome’s nightlife.
Simply walk around and discover the illuminated squares and monuments: Rome is extremely beautiful at night.
Rome Colosseum night
Visit Rome Colosseum at night, a mesmerizing experience!
 The 7 best things to do in Rome with family
If you’re planning a family trip to Rome, I have prepared for you a list of the best things to do with your kids:

Visit the Colosseum of course! The monument might not be what will captivate them the most, but the stories about gladiators and wild beasts will for sure catch their interest.
Go to Trevi fountain and let them throw a few “luck coins”
Go to Villa Borghese park for a family picnic and enjoy the greenery. There are several children playgrounds, you can rent a bike and you can even rent rowing boats. There is also a very nice zoo (you need to buy your tickets here).
Take your kids to the Gladiator school! This activity is a very fun way to learn more about gladiators, the whole family will love it! It must be booked in advance here.
Discover Explora, a museum designed especially for kids, with many interactive activities.
Enjoy an Italian ice cream: no need to search a lot to find an ice cream shop in Rome! And to be honest, your kids would never forgive you if you don’t buy them at least 1 during your stay in Rome 😄
And  for the last one, something I suggest you NOT to do: the “Time Elevator”, a virtual reality 5D movie to discover Rome. The problem is that it’s actually pretty old and bad, so you should save your money and do something else! (who said buy more ice creams?😋).
Getting around Rome on foot
Here is a one day itinerary to visit Rome on foot. It will allow you to discover most of the city’s main tourist attractions. If you choose to do it in 1 day, you will have to content yourself with seeing the monuments from the outside only.

If you spend more time in Rome, you can split this walk on a few days: I will show you to the best way to do it a bit further down in this guide, in my itineraries to visit Rome in 2, 3, 4, or 5 days.

let’s start this walking tour at the Colosseum, to admire its impressive architecture. Then, head to Palatine Hill and the Roman Forum, the 2 other touristic sites in the Ancient Rome area.

To continue this walk, let’s go to the piazza del Campidoglio and then piazza Venezia, where you can enjoy the beautiful Monument to Victor Emmanuel II.

Now, it’s time to head to Piazza Navona and enter Rome Historical Center (“Centro Storico” district in Italian). After Piazza Navona, you can go to the Pantheon and the famous Trevi Fountain.

After this, let’s go north, taking Via Condotti (Rome’s shopping street), it will take you directly to the Piazza di Spagna. From there, go West to reach the Tiber river and walk on the quays until Sant’Angelo bridge. Cross it to arrive at Castel Sant’Angelo.

For the last part of this walk, you will go to the Vatican City. Simply take the Via delle Conciliazione, it will take you directly to St Peter’s square, just in front of the superb St Peter’s Basilica.

Not bad for a day in Rome, right?

Arch of Constantine Rome

How many days to visit Rome?
The time you will want to spend in Rome will depend on 2 things:

The type of traveler you are: you’re fast and don’t like idle times? Or do you prefer to take your time?
The season of your trip: In high season, the waiting lines are much longer!
If you are a ”fast” traveler

It’s possible to visit Rome in 2/3 days. It’s really the ideal time to discover the italian capital main points of interest without any downtime.

If you are a slower traveler (or with children)

In this case, it’s better to plan about 4-5 days in Rome, which will allow you to explore the tourist attractions of the city at your own pace.

If you only have one day, you will have to focus on one thing: The Ancient Rome or the Vatican. I give you an itinerary a bit below.

Another solution for a quick visit to Rome is to only visit everything from the outside (and don’t have to wait in line!). In this case, it’s possible to see the vast majority of places described in this guide in a day.

It’s nevertheless quite a run and you will have to walk relatively quickly! It’s the Itinerary I told you about in the “Getting around Rome on foot” section of this travel guide.

If you don’t want to walk, you have 3 solutions:

take the Hop-on Hop-off bus
Get the Rome transport Card, offering unlimited free public transport for 72h (including the bus to Rome Ciampino airport!)
And the last one, which is the best if you’re planning to visit the whole city:

Get the Omnia Card (Rome + Vatican Pass) or the new Rome Tourist Card. Both give you skip the line tickets for the must-see attractions of Rome!

The Omnia Card also offers free public transport + rebates on 40 touristic sites in the city.1 day in Rome
For those who only have a day to visit Rome, I advise you to focus on the Ancient Rome area. Here is an itinerary that can be done in one day:

Start with the Colosseum (don’t forget your skip the line ticket)
Then head to the 2 other Ancient Rome touristic sites: the Roman Forum and the Palatine Hill for a great view of the city.
It’s then time to go to the piazza del Campidoglio to visit the Capitoline museums.
End your day of visit at piazza Venezia, with the Monument to Victor-Emmanuel II
If you want to get a very good overview of the city in just 1 day (without visiting the inside of the monuments), you can also do the Itinerary I have suggested you in the “Rome on Foot” part of this travel guide.

2 days in Rome
If you have 2 days in Rome, in addition to the first day presented above, you should go for a walk on the Vatican side for your 2nd day in the Eternal City:

Start with the visit of the Vatican, its museums and Sistine Chapel
Then head to St. Peter’s Basilica
Visit the Sant’Angelo castle and admire the Sant’Angelo bridge 
Visit Rome in 3 days
With 3 days in Rome, in addition of the 2 days above, you should now visit Rome Historic Center.

Start at the piazza Navona
then visit the Pantheon and stop at the Trevi fountain
Go shopping on Via Condotti
head to the Piazza di Spagna.
To relax at the end of the day, you should visit the Villa Borghese gardens.
If you have the time (and the motivation!) You can visit one of the museums located in the gardens.
4 days in Rome
4 days in Rome is perfect to discover all the points of interest of the city:

Start with a visit of the Campo di Fiori market
Take time to stroll around Trastevere’s neighborhood
Relax on the Aventine hill, enjoy the gardens and view of Rome.
Visit the catacombs of Rome.
5 days in Rome
If you’re lucky enough to spend 5 days in Rome, I suggest you to take a day trip from Rome for the last day.

Here are the best ones:

From Rome – Visit Pompeii and Vesuvius: With this full day full excursion, you will discover the remains of Pompeii and go to the crater of the Vesuvius volcano. Small groups of 25 people maximum. A very enjoyable day trip from Rome!
From Rome – Round-Trip shuttle service to Pompeii: If you don’t want to do a group tour nor want to drive around Rome, the best way to go to Pompeii is to take this round-trip shuttle. Departure is at 7h15 am and you will come back around 19h. You will have around 4h30 on site to visit Pompeii.
Rome – 1 day Villa D’Este and Hadrian’s Villa tour: Another option or your 5th day in Rome is to head to Tivoli to admire the 2 most impressive Renaissance villas of Italy. The guide doing the tour is very good!
Where to stay in Rome
You’re wondering where to stay in Rome?

In Rome, finding accommodation at a good price isn’t that easy. In oder to help you out, I have selected for you the best hotels depending on your budget.

One last advice: Book now if you can, there is a lot of demand in Rome, so the best hotels rooms are sold out very quickly!

Residenza Pompino: Located close to the Vatican, simple but modern and clean. It’s the best option for a stay in Rome with a small budget. The double room is at 42 euros per night. You won’t find anything cheaper, and the location is great!
Hotel Capannelle Roma: Located 10 kilometers away from the historic center. A bit far from the must-see attractions by foot, but a bus line to the center passes right next to the hotel. Spacious and bright room from 69 € per night, breakfast at 9.50 €. Strong points: quiet location, outdoor pool, varied breakfast and private parking. It’s my favorite for its great value for money!
Alice Vatican House: Located 450 meters from St. Peter’s Square. Contemporary room with neat decoration from 95 € per night, breakfast included. Strong points: ideal location, terrace overlooking the Vatican, warm welcome. This is the best choice for your stay in Rome under 120 euros!
Roma Luxus Hôtel: luxury hotel located at only 400 meters from Piazza Venezia. Beautiful double room starting at 200€ per night, breakfast at 20€. Strong points: The room design, the 5 stars service, the superb breakfast, the spa, the amazing staff. It’s the best hotel for a luxury stay in Rome!
if you want to save a bit of money, you can find an accommodation around Rome. I recommend you he bungalows of Camping Village Rome, located at only 15 minutes by car from the Vatican city.

The price starts at only 30€ per night! It’s the best “budget” solution if you don’t mind not being in the city center. It’s also a great choice for families, with the swimming pool!

Tourist map of Rome
This tourist map of Rome, handy to download on your phone, will certainly be useful during your trip:

Rome tourist map
Rome tourist map
How to go to Rome?
As all roads lead to Rome, this shouldn’t be too difficult 😆.

Getting to Rome by plane remains the easiest solution, especially since there are really cheap flights from the other European big cities with lowcost airlines like Easyjet. Moreover, the great advantage of the city is, as I said in the introduction, it’s very easy to visit on foot!

So, how long would you like to stay in Rome? What do you plan to do?
Best Months to Visit
The best time to visit Rome is from October to April when most of the tourist crowds have dissipated and room rates are lower. Although you'll need a warm coat, weather this time of year hardly ever dips below freezing. For warmer weather – without throngs of tourists and the sweltering humidity – come in May or September. High average temperatures flit between the mid-70s and the lower 80s.
How to Save Money in Rome
Buy the Roma Pass This money-saving pass gives you free or reduced admission to museums, discounts on certain exhibits, and free travel on public transportation for up to three days.
Church hop Many of Rome's little churches hold beautiful treasures – and many are free to visit.
Visit on Sunday The Vatican Museums are free to visit the last Sunday of the month, while state-run sights, such as Musei Capitolini and the Colosseum, offer free entry the first Sunday of the month.
Culture & Customs
Trying to look like a resident isn't difficult, especially if your own wardrobe is filled with high-end designer labels. Men wear immaculately cut suits. On the streets, snug jeans and fitted shirts are the norm for both men and women.

Rome's official currency is the euro. Since the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuates, be sure to check what the current exchange rate is before you go. Major credit cards are accepted at most restaurants and shops. 

The official language in Rome is Italian, and while it's advisable to learn a few phrases – ciao for hello; addio for goodbye; per favore for please, among others – most tourist-facing institutions, whether hotels or attractions, will have people that can communicate in English.




READ MORE 
What to Eat
Rome is overflowing with restaurants, from trattorias that cook up family recipes spanning generations to fusion restaurants that plate up the latest culinary trend. Don't miss out on Roman specialties – such as artichokes, which are so beloved they have a protected status from the European Union. Try them at Rome's Nonna Betta. Cacio e Pepe is a simple pasta dish flavored with Pecorino Romano cheese and black pepper, and it originated in Rome. If you add smoked pork jowl and egg, you get another Roman pasta dish, carbonara. 

Although the Lazio province – the region in which Rome sits – doesn't produce the world-renowned wines of other parts of the country, Rome nonetheless overflows with wine. Try a glass or two at popular wine bars, such as Enoteca il Goccetto, Cul De Sac or Trimani Enoteca – or with your meal at just about any of Roma's restaurants. 

Coffee is an art in Rome, and to enjoy one of the best espresso drinks, try out the Caffe Sant'Eustachio, established in 1938, or the Antigua Tazza d'Oro near the Pantheon. 

If you're looking to dine at Michelin-rated establishments, you'll have quite a few options. La Pergola, housed inside the luxe Rome Cavalieri Hotel, has three stars, while Il Pagliaccio, which serves up a modern twist on traditional Italian dishes, has two stars. 

For a more rustic, homestyle (not to mention cheaper) dining experience, visitors might want to try out Casa Manco for pizza and Pane e Salame for sandwiches, among several thousand other establishments. If you have limited time in Rome and are interested in a culinary crash course, consider signing up for a food tour. Most tours last several hours and include tastings at a variety of local shops and restaurants. Popular operators include, Cook With Us in Rome, Eating Italy Food Tours and LivItaly Tours.






READ MORE 
Explore restaurants
Safety
As always, visitors should use common sense when traveling and watch out for pickpockets on public transportation or in and around heavily touristed attractions. Due to an increased number of terrorist attacks in Europe in recent years, the U.S. State Department advises travelers to be on alert in tourist locations, transit hubs and markets.

Getting Around Rome
The best way to get around Rome is on foot. And because many of the best attractions are clustered together in traffic-free zones, walking makes the most sense. However, some places, like Vatican City, are pretty far from the central historic district, necessitating the use of the metro or a taxi. A nonstop express train (the Leonardo Express) can take you from the Leonardo da Vinci-Fiumicino Airport (FCO) to the Rome Termini railway station in a little more than 30 minutes; one-way tickets cost 14 euros (about $17). Buses are also available, but these aren't recommended because of crowded conditions aboard and heavy traffic outside. If you must bring a car to Rome, you should park it as soon as possible once you enter the city limits. Otherwise, you'll find heavy traffic, impatient drivers and pedestrian-only areas make driving around virtually impossible.

See details for Getting Around
Learn about Neighborhoods in Rome
Entry & Exit Requirements
A passport with at least six months of remaining validity is required for United States citizens traveling outside the mainland by air or sea, as well as for U.S. citizens trying to re-enter the country. U.S. citizens do not need a visa unless they plan on staying longer than 90 days. Visit the U.S. State Department's website for the latest information on foreign exit and entry requirements.  